Support serializing traits into specification extensions in OpenAPI (#1609)
smithy-lang/smithy: docs/source-2.0/guides/converting-to-openapi.rst

            }
        }

-------------------------
OpenAPI conversion traits
-------------------------

> The ``software.amazon.smithy:smithy-openapi-traits`` package defines traits that can be used to augment the conversion
> of a Smithy model into an OpenAPI specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``software.amazon.smithy:smithy-openapi-traits`` package defines traits used to augment the conversion
of a Smithy model into an OpenAPI specification.
```

> The following example shows how to add it to your Gradle build alongside the ``smithy-openapi`` plugin and ``smithy-build``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to add it to your Gradle build alongside the ``smithy-openapi`` plugin:
```

.. code-block:: kotlin
    :caption: build.gradle.kts

    plugins {
        java
        id("software.amazon.smithy").version("0.6.0")
    }

    buildscript {
        dependencies {
            classpath("software.amazon.smithy:smithy-openapi:__smithy_version__")
            classpath("software.amazon.smithy:smithy-openapi-traits:__smithy_version__")
        }
    }

    dependencies {
        implementation("software.amazon.smithy:smithy-openapi-traits:__smithy_version__")
    }

Refer to `Converting to OpenAPI with smithy-build`_ for more detailed information about using the plugin and Gradle.

.. smithy-trait:: smithy.openapi#specificationExtension
.. _specification-extension-trait:

``specificationExtension`` trait
================================

Summary
    Indicates a trait shape should be converted into an `OpenAPI specification extension`_.

>     Any custom trait that has been annotated with this trait, will be serialized into the OpenAPI specification using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Any custom trait that has been annotated with this trait will be serialized into the OpenAPI specification using
```

    its :ref:`Smithy JSON AST representation <json-ast>`.
Trait selector
    ``[trait|trait]``
Value type
    ``structure``

The ``specificationExtension`` trait is a structure that supports the following members:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 10 25 65

    * - Property
      - Type
      - Description
    * - as
      - ``string``

>       - Explicitly name the specification extension.
>         If set must begin with ``"x-"``, otherwise defaults to the target trait shape's ID normalized with hyphens and prepended with ``"x-"``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Explicitly name the specification extension.
        If set, it must begin with ``"x-"``. Otherwise, it defaults to the target trait's shape ID normalized with hyphens and prepended with ``"x-"``.
```

> The following example defines a custom structure trait representing custom metadata, using the ``specificationExtension`` trait:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example defines a specification extension representing a custom metadata structure using the ``specificationExtension`` trait:
```

.. code-block:: smithy

    $version: "2"
    namespace smithy.example

    use smithy.openapi#specificationExtension

    @trait
    @specificationExtension(as: "x-meta")
    structure metadata {
        owner: String
    }

    @output
    @metadata(owner: "greetings-team-b")
    structure GreetResponse {
        greeting: String
    }

    @readonly
    @http(method: "GET", uri: "/greet")
    @metadata(owner: "greetings-team-a")
    operation Greet {
        output: GreetResponse
    }

> This results in an ``x-meta`` property being added to the respective objects in the OpenAPI output, like below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This results in an ``x-meta`` property being added to the respective objects in the OpenAPI output:
```

                    "responses": {
                        "200": {
                            "description": "Greet 200 response",
                            "content": {
                                "application/json": {
                                    "schema": {
                                        "$ref": "#/components/schemas/GreetResponseContent"
                                    }
                                }
                            }
                        }
                    },
                    "x-meta": {
                        "owner": "greetings-team-a"
                    }
                }
            }
        },
        "components": {
            "schemas": {
                "GreetResponseContent": {
                    "type": "object",
                    "properties": {
                        "greeting": {
                            "type": "string"
                        }
                    },
                    "x-meta": {
                        "owner": "greetings-team-b"
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }

.. rubric:: Supported trait locations:

> Currently only a limited subset of trait target locations are supported in the conversion,
> all other locations including on members of the below shapes are ignored:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only a subset of OpenAPI locations are supported in the conversion:
```

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 50 50

    * - Smithy Location
      - OpenAPI Location
    * - Service shape
      - `Root OpenAPI schema <https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0#openapi-object>`_
    * - Operation shape
      - `Operation object <https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0#operation-object>`_
    * - Simple & Aggregate shapes
      - `Schema object <https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0#schema-object>`_

> Most other unsupported use cases can likely be covered by the :ref:`jsonAdd <generate-openapi-setting-jsonAdd>` feature of the ``smithy-openapi`` plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unsupported use cases can likely be covered by the :ref:`jsonAdd <generate-openapi-setting-jsonAdd>` feature of the ``smithy-openapi`` plugin.
```
